                                        Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2026




                                        AGENT S YNTH : S CALABLE TASK G ENERATION FOR
                                        G ENERALIST C OMPUTER -U SE AGENTS
                                         Jingxu Xie, Dylan Xu, Xuandong Zhao∗, Dawn Song
                                         University of California, Berkeley
                                         {jingxuxie,dylanx26,xuandongzhao,dawnsong}@berkeley.edu



                                                                                      A BSTRACT

                                                     We introduce AgentSynth, a scalable and cost-efficient pipeline for automatically
arXiv:2506.14205v2 [cs.CL] 2 Mar 2026




                                                     synthesizing high-quality tasks and trajectory datasets for generalist computer-
                                                     use agents. Leveraging information asymmetry, AgentSynth constructs subtasks
                                                     that are simple during generation but significantly more challenging when com-
                                                     posed into long-horizon tasks, enabling the creation of over 6,000 diverse and
                                                     realistic tasks. A key strength of AgentSynth is its ability to precisely modu-
                                                     late task complexity by varying the number of subtasks. Empirical evaluations
                                                     show that state-of-the-art LLM agents suffer a steep performance drop, from
                                                     18% success at difficulty level 1 to just 4% at level 6, highlighting the bench-
                                                     mark’s difficulty and discriminative power. Moreover, our pipeline achieves a
                                                     low average cost of $0.60 per trajectory, orders of magnitude cheaper than hu-
                                                     man annotations. Our code and data are available at https://github.com/
                                                     sunblaze-ucb/AgentSynth.


                                        1       I NTRODUCTION
                                        Large language models (LLMs) have recently shown promise as autonomous agents capable of
                                        solving complex, multi-step tasks across a wide range of domains. These LLM agents interact with
                                        an environment through structured actions such as mouse clicks, keystrokes, or code executions, and
                                        are prompted to complete specific tasks using tools provided by the interface. This paradigm has
                                        been explored for web navigation tasks (Yao et al., 2023a; Drouin et al., 2024; Furuta et al., 2023),
                                        software development (Yang et al., 2024), formal mathematics (Lin et al., 2025), and many others
                                        (Boisvert et al., 2024; Agashe et al., 2025). As research in LLM agents progresses, the availability
                                        of high-quality datasets tailored to these domains becomes increasingly critical.
                                        General computer-use tasks that involve interacting with desktop environments and software appli-
                                        cations pose especially difficult challenges for data collection. Existing datasets in this space, such
                                        as τ -bench (Yao et al., 2024), TheAgentCompany (Xu et al., 2024), OSWorld (Xie et al., 2024),
                                        WorkArena (Drouin et al., 2024) rely heavily on human demonstrations over a limited set of tools
                                        and tasks. While effective in showcasing agent capabilities, this human-in-the-loop approach is
                                        labor-intensive, expensive, and fundamentally unscalable, making it impractical for covering the
                                        full breadth of real-world computing scenarios.
                                        To overcome these limitations, recent work has turned to synthetic data generation using LLMs.
                                        However, existing pipelines face two core challenges: (1) current LLM agents struggle to generate
                                        reliable trajectories for complex tasks, and (2) simplistic or repetitive generation strategies limit
                                        task diversity. These challenges are especially acute in visually grounded or long-horizon tasks,
                                        where agents must maintain contextual awareness, reason over multiple steps, and adapt when plans
                                        fail (Xie et al., 2024; Bonatti et al., 2024). Moreover, limited task diversity increases the risk of
                                        overfitting or model collapse during downstream training (Shumailov et al., 2024).
                                        We introduce AgentSynth, a scalable and flexible pipeline for synthesizing diverse, high-quality
                                        datasets for training and evaluating computer-use agents. The core insight behind AgentSynth is
                                        to exploit information asymmetry between the data generation and evaluation phases, the idea that
                                        solving a task step-by-step in the forward direction is far easier than reasoning out the entire solution
                                            ∗
                                                Corresponding author


                                                                                            1
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2026




all at once. Therefore, we construct the task through a sequence of simple, solvable subtasks. Each
subtask builds incrementally on the prior state, with the corresponding trajectories collected during
execution. A summarization agent then merges the subtasks into a composite long-horizon task,
producing realistic scenarios that are easy to generate but hard to solve.
This design offers several key advantages. By constructing complex tasks from simple, solvable
components, AgentSynth enables reliable trajectory collection while maintaining benchmark diffi-
culty. Varying the chaining of subtasks induces combinatorial task diversity. The pipeline is fully
automated and achieves a low cost of just $0.60 per trajectory. While we generate over 6,000 tasks
in this work, the approach readily scales to tens of thousands of realistic tasks across diverse envi-
ronments, unlocking significant potential for agent training and evaluation.
Our contributions are as follows:
• We introduce AgentSynth, a fully automated pipeline that synthesizes challenging and diverse
  computer-use tasks by iteratively chaining LLM-generated subtasks
• We demonstrate how information asymmetry between generation and execution improves trajec-
  tory reliability and task complexity, enabling fine-grained task difficulty control.
• We build a benchmark using AgentSynth and show that state-of-the-art agents struggle signifi-
  cantly, revealing a large room for future improvement.
We describe our methodology in detail in Section 3, analyze the generated tasks and datasets in
Section 4, and present empirical evaluation results in Section 5.

2   R ELATED W ORK
Substantial research has focused on synthesizing data to improve the training and evaluation of
LLMs. However, most existing datasets and benchmarks for computer-use agents still rely heavily
on manual design and annotation, limiting their scalability and diversity.
Synthetic Data Generation. Synthetic data generation has emerged as a promising approach to
enhance model performance and foster new capabilities. Many recent studies have leveraged LLMs
to automate and diversify data generation. For instance, Yuan et al. (2025) curated diverse, high-
quality datasets extracted from extensive pretraining corpora. Xu et al. (2025a) (Evol-Instruct), Su
et al. (2025) (Learn-by-interact), and Sun et al. (2025) (OS-Genesis) both use sequential pipelines
to generate synthetic datasets. However, OS-Genesis and Learn-by-interact retroactively define a
task over a trajectory instead of stringing together subtasks, while Evol-Instruct only generates the
trajectory with the final instruction. Shin et al. (2019) generated synthetic datasets with controlled
distributions over programs and specifications. Li et al. (2025) employed an optimization loop where
a data generator continuously produces challenging problems targeted at specific evaluation models.
Many other applications of synthetic data for LLMs are listed in Liu et al. (2024). These works
highlight the power of synthetic pipelines but focus primarily on static text benchmarks rather than
interactive agents.
Agent Datasets and Benchmarks. Current datasets and benchmarks for agents predominantly
depend on human annotators for task creation, demonstration provision, and the definition of eval-
uation metrics (Yao et al., 2024; Xu et al., 2024; Zhou et al., 2024), which are costly to scale and
often limited in diversity. More recent work explores using LLMs to generate agent tasks and tra-
jectories. For example, Pahuja et al. (2025); Trabucco et al. (2025); Murty et al. (2025); Gandhi &
Neubig (2025) employed LLMs as web agents to synthesize web-based interactions. Boisvert et al.
(2024) composed atomic tasks from Drouin et al. (2024) to form difficult tasks. Xu et al. (2025b)
and Ou et al. (2024) turned online tutorials into tasks and demonstrations. Nonetheless, these gener-
ated tasks and trajectories are limited primarily to web-based activities and typically involve simple
interactions without complex multi-step reasoning or extensive tool utilization.
Agent Environments. Early agent environments such as MiniWob++ (Liu et al., 2018) focused on
simplified web tasks and low-level actions. Later advancements such as Mind2Web (Deng et al.,
2023), WebArena (Zhou et al., 2024), and Online-Mind2Web (Xue et al., 2025) introduced more
realistic websites but remained constrained in breadth and complexity. More comprehensive envi-
ronments have been developed by Yao et al. (2024); Drouin et al. (2024); Xu et al. (2024) which
expanded the action space and interface diversity, yet they still deviate from the actual computer
environments. Recent developments like OSWorld (Xie et al., 2024) and WindowsArena (Bonatti


                                                  2
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2026




                                                    Persona               A senator who is open to prison reform but needs convincing data
                                                                          and evidence to support policy changes
                 Initial task generation
                                                                          Search for recent recidivism rate statistics following prison
                                                  Initial task            reform initiatives in the United States.

                 Follow-up task generation
                                                                      Create a text file summarizing and comparing historical and current
                                            Follow-up subtask         recidivism rate statistics in the United States.
                Verify if the task is
                successfully executed
                                              Yes                No

    ×n          Summarize what the agent has done
                                                                          Search for historical (pre-reform) recidivism rate statistics in the
                                Revised subtask description               United States to compare with current post-reform rates.

                                                                          Collect recidivism rate statistics in the United States for the
         Summarize the sequence of subtasks                               1980s, 1990s, 2000s, and 2010s using online sources, enter this
                                                                          data into a LibreOffice Calc spreadsheet with columns labeled
                                                                          'Period' and 'Recidivism Rate', and create a clearly-labeled line
                                                                          chart titled 'US Recidivism Rates by Decade' with the X axis
                                                Final tasks               labeled 'Decade' and the Y axis labeled 'Recidivism Rate (%)' to
                                                                          visually compare changes in recidivism rates across these decades.




                                                                                                          …


           Initial state                        Initial task                    Follow-up task 1           …           Follow-up task n



                                           Task difficulty level 1            Task difficulty level 2      …       Task difficulty level n+1


Figure 1: AgentSynth data generation pipeline. Given a persona, the task proposer generates an ini-
tial task, which is followed by a sequence of subtasks executed by the agent. Each step is verified; if
execution fails, a revised subtask description is generated. After n successful steps, a summarization
agent composes final high-level tasks. Tasks at different difficulty levels are formed by summarizing
the first 1 to n subtasks, enabling controllable task complexity.

et al., 2024) address this gap by transforming real operating systems into interactive gym environ-
ments for agent training and trajectory generation. Our work leverages the capabilities of OSWorld,
providing comprehensive access to authentic computer tools to enhance synthetic data generation
for generalist computer-use agents.

3    S CALABLE AGENT TASKS AND T RAJECTORIES G ENERATION
We design a synthetic data generation pipeline powered by six distinct LLM-based agents: a task
proposer, a task executor, a task verifier, a task reviser, a follow-up task proposer, and a task sum-
marizer. Central to our methodology is the exploitation of information asymmetry (Li et al., 2025);
the idea that solving a task step-by-step in the forward direction is far easier than inferring the entire
solution from scratch. Specifically, we generate sequences of simple, tractable subtasks, collecting
trajectories along the way, and later summarizing the sequence into a single, coherent long-horizon
task. This approach allows us to synthesize tasks that are easy to generate but substantially more
difficult for agents to complete at test time. Full prompt templates are included in Appendix B.
Our pipeline operates in the OSWorld environment (Xie et al., 2024), a Gym-compatible simulated
desktop interface that mirrors real-world computer usage. Within this environment, agents can inter-
act freely with a broad range of software applications and system tools hosted on a virtual machine.
At each step, the agent receives a full-screen screenshot (1920 × 1080), typically spanning 1k–2k
tokens depending on the model’s tokenizer. Based on this visual context and the current task, the
LLM agent generates executable actions, such as mouse clicks, key presses, text input, and scrolling,
which are executed using pyautogui (Sweigart, 2025) to closely emulate human behavior. The


                                                                      3
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2026




full action space is detailed in Table G.1, where the percentage listed for each action type reflects
its frequency of occurrence across all trajectories in our dataset. To highlight the generality of our
pipeline, we also apply it to a web agent environment (InSTA (Trabucco et al., 2025)), as discussed
in Appendix F. The overall data generation pipeline is detailed below and is presented in Figure 1.
(1) Task Proposer. We initiate the data generation process by instructing a task proposer agent
to generate an initial, straightforward task. To enrich task diversity, the proposer is guided by a
randomly assigned persona sampled from the persona hub (Ge et al., 2024), prompting it to suggest
tasks relevant to a specific user profile. The proposer takes as input the persona and the initial Ubuntu
desktop screenshot, and is prompted to create clear, specific tasks that can be completed in a few
atomic actions. To ensure safety and privacy, we prohibit any tasks involving login credentials or
actions such as email sending. Prompt details are provided in Appendix Table B.1.
We currently rely on GPT-4.1-based agents for task generation due to their robustness and broad
generalization. Different LLM models might generate tasks with systematically different complex-
ity, realism, or meaningfulness, and it remains an open and interesting research question how model
choice affects generated task properties. Exploring task-generation variance across different LLM
architectures could be beneficial to further enrich task diversity and calibrate difficulty precisely.
(2) Task Executor. To execute the proposed tasks, we construct a ReAct-style (Yao et al., 2023b)
agent that integrates OpenAI’s GPT-4.1 (OpenAI, 2025b) and computer-use-preview (OpenAI,
2025a) models. Empirically, GPT-4.1 is good at planning and interpreting visual context, while
the computer-use model is more accurate in grounding actions to pixel-level coordinates. We there-
fore assign GPT-4.1 the role of planner: it receives the task, current screenshot, and execution his-
tory, and outputs a natural language description of the next action. This description, along with the
screenshot, is then passed to the computer-use model, which generates the precise executable action
(e.g., mouse click coordinates, keystrokes). This two-stage setup balances high-level reasoning with
fine-grained visual grounding. During execution, we log both the model’s reasoning trace and the
resulting actions, enabling rich trajectory annotation. Each task execution is limited to a maximum
of 10 steps. The prompts for the task executor are shown in Appendix Table B.2 and Table B.3.
(3) Task Verifier. The task verification agent evaluates whether a given trajectory successfully
completes the intended task. It reviews the full screenshot sequence and task description, and outputs
both a binary success label and a completion percentage. To avoid overwhelming the verifier with
excessive visual input, we adopt a WebJudge-style architecture inspired by Xue et al. (2025). The
verifier first extracts key requirements from the task description, then analyzes each screenshot to
select a subset of key screenshots most relevant to task completion. The final verdict is made based
on the task description, identified key requirements, and the filtered key screenshots. To reduce token
usage, all screenshots are downsampled to 960×480. If a task is not fully completed, the verifier
estimates the percentage of task completion. In such cases, the task reviser generates a revised task
description that reflects the actual progress. Prompt details for the verifier are provided in Appendix
Table B.5 to Table B.7.
(4) Task Reviser. When a trajectory is only partially successful, we invoke a task reviser agent
to generate a revised task description that accurately reflects the actions actually completed by the
agent. The reviser takes as input the full execution screenshots and identifies the goals that were
successfully accomplished. It then outputs a revised task description that aligns with the observed
behavior. Prompt details for the task reviser are shown in Appendix Table B.8.
(5) Follow-up Task Proposer. Upon completing a task, the follow-up task proposer generates the
next logical subtask to continue the sequence. This agent is given the full history of prior subtasks
and the most recent desktop screenshot, and is instructed to generate a simple, specific follow-
up action that builds on the previous state. Additionally, the proposer is informed of previously
unsuccessful tasks, prompting it to propose simpler alternatives. Like the initial proposer, it avoids
tasks that require login or unsafe actions. The resulting task is executed and verified as before, and
if incomplete, a revised description is generated. This iterative generation process continues until
a desired sequence length is reached. Prompt templates for the follow-up proposer are shown in
Appendix Table B.4.
(6) Task Summarizer. Finally, the task summarizer converts a sequence of completed subtasks into
a single high-level task description. This summary abstracts away step-level details while preserving
the overarching objective and required actions. By varying the number of subtasks summarized, we


                                                   4
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2026




systematically control task difficulty: more subtasks yield longer, more complex tasks that require
greater reasoning and planning. This mechanism enables us to generate tasks at multiple difficulty
levels in a principled way. While each subtask may be trivial in isolation, the final composed task
presents a challenging, multi-step problem for LLM agents. The summarization process is illustrated
in Figure 1, and prompt details are provided in Appendix Table B.9.

4     DATASET A NALYSIS
4.1   Q UALITY
To assess the quality of the generated tasks and trajec-                                     Table 1: Human evaluation of AgentSynth
tories, we conducted a manual evaluation on a random                                         task and trajectory quality.
sample of 100 instances across difficulty levels (approx-
imately 16 tasks per difficulty level) to ensure represen-                                         Quality Metric                                                                      Yes
tativeness across complexity. Our evaluation focused                                               Feasibility and realism                                                            91%
on the feasibility and realism of the overall task, the                                            Subtask coherence                                                                  90%
coherence and logical flow of subtasks, their relevance                                            Persona Relevance                                                                  94%
to the assigned persona, and the accuracy of the veri-                                             Verifier Accuracy                                                                  88%
fier’s assessment of the agent’s trajectory. Specifically,
human annotators are instructed to assess:
• Feasibility and realism: Could a real human user plausibly complete this task using standard
  software tools?
• Subtask coherence: Does each subtask logically follow from the previous subtasks, maintaining
  clear and meaningful workflow progression?
• Persona relevance: Is the task aligned meaningfully with the persona provided to guide task cre-
  ation?
• Verifier accuracy: Does the automated verifier’s binary assessment (task success or failure) align
  correctly with human judgment?
As shown in Table 1, all quality metrics exceed 85%, highlighting the consistency, realism, and reli-
ability of the data produced by the AgentSynth pipeline. On verifier accuracy, the evaluators who in-
dependently evaluated the random sample also had an inter-rater agreement of 0.74 (Cohen’s kappa).
We note that prior findings (Lù et al., 2025) indicate potential limitations of LLM-based verification,
and our high manual-validation rate suggests our engineered verification pipeline, including selec-
tive screenshot sampling, visual context filtering, and task requirement extraction, improves verifier
reliability compared to simpler methods.

4.2   V ERIFIER C ALIBRATION

We further calibrate our LLM-based                                                                                                            
                                                                                                        + X P D Q  M X G J H G  V F R U H
                                            9 H U L I L H U  $ F F X U D F \




verifier against human judgments on                                                                                                           
a stratified sample of trajectories. For                                                                                                      
each trajectory, humans label suc-                                                                                                            
cess/failure and assign a graded com-
pletion score in [0,1].                                                                                                                       
                                                                            
                                                                                   
                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Figure 2 (left) reports binary agree-
                                                    7 D V N  ' L I I L F X O W \  / H Y H O                                                             9 H U L I L H U  F R P S O H W L R Q  V F R U H
ment as a function of difficulty level.
Accuracy remains high across all lev-                            Figure 2: Verifier calibration.
els with only a mild decline as tasks
become harder, indicating that the verifier’s pass/fail decisions are consistent with human judgments.
Figure 2 (right) examines the verifier’s completion score. We bin trajectories by verifier score and
plot the average human-judged completion score in each bin. The curve is monotone: higher verifier
scores correspond to higher human scores. Together, these results show that the LLM verifier is both
reliable across difficulty levels and provides a meaningful partial-credit signal.
To further probe robustness, we perform an adversarial stress test of the LLM verifier. Start-
ing from human-verified successful trajectories, we construct two types of perturbations: near-
miss variants that subtly violate the goal (e.g., saving a file with an almost-correct name or in


                                                                                         5
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2026




                      $ Y J   K R U L ] R Q                         $ Y J     D S S V
                      $ Y J   P H P R U \  V S D Q                 $ Y J     D S S  V Z L W F K H V


                
                                                                                                   
                
                                                                                                   
  6 W H S V




                                                                                                    $ S S V
                                                                                                 
                                                                                                 
                
                                                                                      
                                    7 D V N  ' L I I L F X O W \  / H Y H O
                          (a) Scaling of task complexity.                                                         (b) Distribution of Apps involved.

                                                                     Figure 3: AgentSynth dataset statistics.


a wrong but visually similar folder), which should be labeled as failures, and benign variants
that preserve the goal but change the UI in irrelevant ways (e.g., resized windows, extra tabs),
which should still be labeled as successes. Table 2     Table 2: Adversarial stress test of verifier.
reports the fraction of perturbed states that the veri-
fier marks as “success.” The verifier incorrectly ac-
cepts only 12% of near-miss variants while correctly    Category                  Verifier “success”
accepting 94% of benign variants, indicating a low      Near-miss (should fail)          12%
false-positive rate on subtle failures and robustness   Benign (should succeed)          94%
to superficial UI changes.

4.3             C OMPARISON TO OTHER DATASETS AND B ENCHMARKS

We designed the AgentSynth pipeline with a focus on generating diverse, realistic, and challeng-
ing data for training and evaluating computer-use agents. Table 4 compares our dataset to several
existing agent benchmarks, highlighting key advantages in diversity, complexity, and scalability.
Examples of tasks are shown in Appendix D.
Diverse Real-World Tasks. AgentSynth spans a broad range of software applications and do-
mains, including office productivity, information retrieval, entertainment, coding, and research. This
breadth ensures rich task diversity and supports generalization across practical, everyday scenarios.
The pipeline leverages versatile environments that require agents to fluidly interact with multiple
software tools within a single task. Figure 3b shows the coverage across domains and tools, illus-
trating the dataset’s alignment with real-world complexity.
Importantly, our pipeline encourages multi-tool usage through chained subtasks. As shown in Ap-
pendix Figure C.1c, over 60% of trajectories involve two or more software applications, and more
than 40% involve three or more, demonstrating the inherent compositionality of AgentSynth tasks.
Long-Horizon Trajectories: Real-world tasks often require extended sequences of actions involv-
ing planning, memory, and interface coordination. AgentSynth explicitly supports such long-horizon
tasks by composing them from interdependent subtasks. As shown in Figure 3a, tasks at difficulty
level 6 typically require 40-60 steps, exceeding the trajectory lengths of existing benchmarks. These
tasks challenge agents to maintain context, manage interleaved goals, and execute multi-step plans,
closely reflecting the demands of real-world computer use.
Scaling of Task Complexity. Although we define difficulty primarily via horizon, the tasks become
harder along several complementary axes. Figure 3a shows that from level 1 to 6, the average
horizon increases from 5 to 45 steps and the memory span from 2 to 18 steps, indicating longer-
range dependencies. Moreover, the average number of applications rises from 1.2 to 3.3 and app


                                                                                                              6
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2026




                 Table 3: Comparison of the cost of AgentSynth versus human annotations.

                  Framework                       Typical Steps       Human Hours per Task             Cost per Task
    τ -bench (Yao et al., 2024)                       20 - 30                      2                     $4 - $50
    OSWorld (Xie et al., 2024)                        10 - 15                     4.4                   $8.8 - $110
    TheAgentCompany (Xu et al., 2024)                 30 - 40                     17                    $34 - $425
    AgentSynth                                        40 - 60                     NA                       $0.6

         Table 4: Comparison of AgentSynth to some existing LLM agent datasets and benchmarks.

                  Framework                    Multi-domain1      Domain Categories        Scalable2    Long Horizon
    Mind2Web (Deng et al., 2023)                    ×                    Web                  ×              ×
    Online-Mind2Web (Xue et al., 2025)              ×                    Web                  ×              ×
    WebArena (Zhou et al., 2024)                    ×                    Web                  ×              ×
    VisualWebArena (Koh et al., 2024)               ×                    Web                  ×              ×
    INSTA (Trabucco et al., 2025)                   ×                    Web                  ✓              ×
    AgentTrek (Xu et al., 2025b)                    ×                    Web                  ✓              ×
    Explorer (Pahuja et al., 2025)                  ×                    Web                  ✓              ✓
    SWE-bench (Jimenez et al., 2024)                ×                   Coding                ×              ×
    WorkArena (Drouin et al., 2024)                 ✓             Enterprise Software         ×              ✓
    OSWorld (Xie et al., 2024)                      ✓           OS, Web, Office, Coding       ×              ×
    WindowsAgentArena (Bonatti et al., 2024)        ✓           OS, Web, Office, Coding       ×              ×
    τ -bench (Yao et al., 2024)                     ✓               Retail, Airline           ×              ✓
                                                                SWE, HR, Admin, PM,
    TheAgentCompany (Xu et al., 2024)               ✓                                         ×              ✓
                                                                       Research,
                                                                Web, OS, Office, Coding,
    AgentSynth                                      ✓                                         ✓              ✓
                                                                      Research


switches from 0.5 to 4.3, reflecting increased context switching and cross-application coordination.
Thus, higher difficulty levels systematically combine longer horizons with more complex memory
and interrupt-handling demands. Additional dataset statistics and task properties are provided in
Appendix C.
4.4       C OST A NALYSIS
Beyond diversity and high quality, our data generation pipeline is also highly scalable and cost-
efficient. Our approach achieves a cost of $0.6 per trajectory with 5 follow-up subtasks. This
is comparable with recent methods such as AgentTrek (Xu et al., 2025b) ($0.55 per trajectory),
Explorer (Pahuja et al., 2025) ($0.28 per trajectory), and InSTA (Trabucco et al., 2025) ($0.27 per
trajectory). Furthermore, our method is much cheaper than human annotations for complex tasks
with long trajectories. Table 3 shows the cost of several datasets from human annotations, where we
assume the labor rate is in the range of $2 - $25 per hour. The detailed calculation of our cost and
human labor hours is shown in Appendix E.

5        R ESULTS AND D ISCUSSION
5.1       E VALUATION S ETUP
To assess the general-purpose computer-use capabilities of current language models, we evaluated
several state-of-the-art multimodal agents with visual understanding. At each interaction step, the
model receives a prompt containing the task description, the current desktop screenshot, and its
own previous thoughts. The model is then asked to generate executable Python code using the
pyautogui library to perform the next action. We sampled 50 tasks from each difficulty level for
agent evaluation. Additionally, to benchmark human performance, we evaluated 20 tasks sampled
from difficulty level 6, the most challenging tier in AgentSynth.
     1
      We use “multi-domain” to indicate coverage across different types of software environments (e.g., OS
tools, native applications, web interfaces), rather than just topic categories within a single interface modality
like websites. While WebArena and Mind2Web span many topics, their environments are restricted to web
browsers.
    2
      “Scalable” indicates that the dataset can be expanded via automated or synthetic pipelines without requiring
additional manual annotation.


                                                           7
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2026




                                                                                                                                                                                                             R   P L Q L                                 * H P L Q L      S U R
                                                                           
                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 * 3 7                                     & O D X G H      6 R Q Q H W
 6 X F F H V V  5 D W H
                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                7 D V N  ' L I I L F X O W \  / H Y H O

                                                                       Figure 4: Model performance across task difficulty levels.

To isolate the role of the underlying language model and focus on the task difficulty itself, we use
bare LLMs without fine-tuning or additional agent-specific scaffolding. Each model is prompted
to generate pyautogui actions step-by-step based on the screenshot, task description, and action
histories. This setup reflects a lower bound on performance and is intended to benchmark agents
under minimal guidance rather than deploy optimized, production-grade agents. Prompts used for
evaluation are detailed in Appendix B.10. Task completion is assessed using the automatic verifier
agent introduced in section 3, which analyzes the full trajectory and determines whether the task
was successfully completed.

5.2                            R ESULTS
The top panel of Figure 4 shows the success rates of four state-of-the-art language models on the
AgentSynth benchmark across task difficulty levels 1 through 6. Despite having visual capabilities
and strong general reasoning skills, all models exhibit poor performance on our benchmark, espe-
cially as task complexity increases. In contrast, humans achieve a 70% success rate even on the most
difficult tasks, underscoring the performance gap. Key observations include:
Sharp Decline with Difficulty. All models show a consistent and steep drop in success rate as task
difficulty increases. For example, o4-mini achieves 18% success on level 1 but drops to 4% by
levels 5 and 6. GPT-4.1 fails to complete tasks beyond level 3. This highlights the significant
challenge in realistic GUI environments and demonstrates the increasing challenge posed by longer-
horizon, multi-step tasks in AgentSynth.
Near-Zero Success on Hard Tasks. At levels 4 and 6, only o4-mini and Claude-3.7 achieve non-
zero scores, and even then, the success rate is only around 4%. This indicates that current models are
far from achieving generalizable competence in realistic multi-step computer tasks, showcasing the
difficulty and discriminative power of our benchmark. The results highlight the need for models that
can handle long-term dependencies, maintain state, and ground their decisions in visual observations
over extended sequences.

5.3                            C OMMON AGENT FAILURE M ODES
Despite the promising capabilities of LLM agents, their performance on the AgentSynth benchmark
remains low, with most tasks ending in failure. We identify several recurring failure modes that
highlight key limitations and suggest directions for future improvement:
Inaccurate Mouse Clicks. A frequent failure involves imprecise mouse click coordinates. While
the agent often identifies the correct UI element conceptually (e.g., the "Save" button or a browser
tab), it fails to locate it precisely on screen. This results in misclicks, unintended interactions (e.g.,
clicking ads or wrong icons), and cascading errors, such as obscuring or losing focus on the target
window. Moreover, agents often repeat the same incorrect click multiple times without adapting.
Poor Screenshot Understanding and State Tracking. Agents frequently fail to properly interpret
the visual information in screenshots. They may misidentify popups, ads, or irrelevant overlays as
part of the main task UI. Other papers benchmarking LLM agents have also found problems with
perceptual grounding (Xie et al., 2024; Koh et al., 2024). This weak perceptual grounding results
in repetitive or irrational actions: for example, repeatedly trying to save a file that has already been


                                                                                                                                                               8
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2026




saved. Moreover, agents often lose track of what has already been done, lacking persistent memory
or state awareness.
Lack of Recovery from Errors: Once an agent becomes stuck, it struggles to recover. Rather than
exploring alternative actions or reasoning about potential mistakes, the agent tends to repeat the
same failed behavior. This lack of introspection and self-correction severely limits task completion,
especially for multi-step tasks requiring contingency handling. This is a common error found with
complex, long-horizon across many domains in the literature, from computer-use to general remote
tasks (Xu et al., 2024; Drouin et al., 2024) to math and reasoning questions (Huang et al., 2024)
among others.

5.4     AGENT SCAFFOLDING EVALUATION

Our primary results so far used bare LLM
agents that directly map from the current                              * 3 7        6                  * 3 7        6 
screen and instruction to the next GUI ac-                                * 3 7      6                      R   P L Q L 
tion. To better match contemporary agentic                                R   P L Q L    6                  * 3 7    
systems, we additionally evaluate the Agent
S3 scaffold (Gonzalez-Pumariega et al., 2025),           

                                                                     6 X F F H V V  5 D W H
which augments the backbone model with ex-
plicit planning, tool-aware reasoning, and self-
verification over intermediate steps. Figure 5
compares success rates across difficulty levels          
for four backbones. For the weaker models
(o4-mini, GPT-4.1), adding the S3 scaf-
fold yields substantial gains: success roughly           
doubles on level 1 and remains consistently                                                                                        
higher than the bare agents across levels.                             7 D V N  ' L I I L F X O W \  / H Y H O
Stronger backbones (GPT-5, GPT-5.1) under
S3 achieve the highest absolute performance, Figure 5: Model performance for bare LLMs and
confirming that both model quality and scaf- with Agent S3 scaffolding.
folding contribute to success. However, for all
backbones the success rate still decreases as the difficulty level increases, and even the best con-
figuration attains only modest success on level 6. This pattern indicates that while sophisticated
scaffolds can recover a significant fraction of “easy” tasks, AgentSynth remains challenging for
state-of-the-art computer-use agents on the hardest levels.
We also evaluate an intermediate scaffold, Agent S2.5 (Agashe et al., 2025), which includes planning
and tool formatting but uses a simpler self-check mechanism. As shown in Appendix Figure C.2,
Agent S2.5 yields improvements over the bare agents that are similar to Agent S3, and exhibits a
similar decline in success with increasing difficulty. This suggests the qualitative trends are robust
to different scaffold designs.

5.5     E FFECT OF INFORMATION ASYMMETRY

To assess the impact of our asymmetric generation pipeline, we compare AgentSynth to a direct-
instruction baseline. In the direct setting, we prompt the same base model to generate a single long-
horizon instruction in one shot, targeting approximately 5-10, 10-20, and 20-30 actions, which we
denote as Easy, Medium, and Hard tasks. We then attempt to execute each instruction in OSWorld
with the same executor and verifier used in our main pipeline, and retain only tasks for which
a complete ground-truth trajectory can be generated. In contrast, AgentSynth first generates and
verifies short subtasks and only afterwards summarizes them into long-horizon instructions.
Table 5 reports both the generation success rate (fraction of tasks for which a ground-truth trajectory
can be obtained) and the evaluation success rate of Agent S3 with GPT-5.1 on the resulting tasks.
For direct instruction, generation success drops sharply as we target harder tasks: from 64% at
Easy to only 11% at Hard, indicating that the generator frequently fails to produce trajectories for
genuinely difficult tasks. However, among the small subset of tasks that are solvable, evaluation
success remains relatively high and flat, suggesting that these retained tasks are still comparatively
easy for the evaluation agent.


                                                                   9
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2026




                  Table 5: Asymmetry ablation: direct instruction vs. AgentSynth.

                                             Direct instruction                     AgentSynth
                                       Easy      Medium         Hard      Level 1       Level 3   Level 6
         Generation success rate (%)    64          33          11          65            57        52
         Evaluation success rate (%)    60          51          48          62            20        14

                  Table 6: Effect of the base generator on evaluation performance.

                                                     Success rate (%) at difficulty level
                    Gen. model    Eval. model
                                                      1     2        3     4        5      6
                                  GPT-4.1 + S3       36    18        14    14    10        10
                    GPT-4.1
                                  GPT-5.1 + S3       62    32        20    22    16        14
                                  GPT-4.1 + S3       34    16        16    14    10        12
                    GPT-5-mini
                                  GPT-5.1 + S3       60    34        18    20    18        16
                                  GPT-4.1 + S3       28    12        14    10     8         6
                    GPT-5
                                  GPT-5.1 + S3       58    28        18    16    14        14
                                  GPT-4.1 + S3       30    14        12    12    10         8
                    GPT-5.1
                                  GPT-5.1 + S3       56    30        16    18    14        12


AgentSynth exhibits the opposite pattern. Generation success remains high and stable across diffi-
culty levels, confirming that the asymmetric pipeline makes trajectory collection substantially easier.
At the same time, evaluation success drops dramatically as we increase the number of summarized
subtasks, from 62% at level 1 to 14% at level 6. This decoupling between generation and evaluation
difficulty is precisely the effect we seek: information asymmetry allows the generator to reliably
solve and log simple multi-step workflows, while the resulting composite tasks remain challenging
for downstream agents.

5.6   E FFECT OF BASE GENERATOR

Our main experiments so far used GPT-4.1 as the base model for proposing and executing sub-
tasks during data synthesis. To assess how sensitive AgentSynth is to this choice, we re-run the full
pipeline with three different base models: GPT-5-mini, GPT-5, and GPT-5.1, keeping prompts
and the pipeline fixed. We then evaluate the resulting datasets using Agent S3 framework with ei-
ther GPT-4.1 or GPT-5.1 as the backbone. Table 6 reports success rates across difficulty levels
for each combination. We observe that the overall behavior is stable across generation base mod-
els. Within each dataset, the stronger evaluation model (GPT-5.1 + S3) consistently outperforms
GPT-4.1 + S3, and in all cases success rates decrease as task difficulty increases. Changing the
base generator from GPT-4.1 to GPT-5-mini yields very similar results, while using GPT-5
or GPT-5.1 for synthesis leads to slightly lower success rates, suggesting that stronger genera-
tors may produce harder or more diverse tasks. These results remain consistent with the previous
conclusions qualitatively. AgentSynth remains challenging at high difficulty for various generator
choices, and the relative ranking of evaluation models is preserved. This indicates that our findings
are not specific to a particular base model and that AgentSynth is robust to reasonable variations in
the synthesis backbone.

6     C ONCLUSION
In this work, we introduce AgentSynth, a scalable pipeline for synthesizing diverse, high-quality
datasets of computer-use tasks and trajectories. By leveraging information asymmetry and LLM-
based agents, our method decomposes complex tasks into solvable subtasks, enabling fine-grained
control over difficulty and long-horizon planning. The resulting benchmark reveals performance
gaps in state-of-the-art models, with success rates dropping sharply as task complexity increases,
highlighting both the challenging and discriminative power of our dataset. Notably, AgentSynth can
continuously and flexibly generate harder tasks, ensuring long-term benchmarking utility.


                                                     10
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2026




E THICS S TATEMENT

We acknowledge that we adhere to the ICLR Code of Ethics. Our data synthesis pipeline is intended
solely for academic research on GUI-based computer-use agents. To ensure ethical integrity and
mitigate potential risks, we explicitly prompt our proposer agents to avoid any tasks involving login
credentials or real personal information, or sending forms that change the backend of any website
(emails, transactions, etc). Additionally, we introduce time delays between each action to prevent
excessive requests and reduce potential load on external websites, thereby minimizing any unin-
tended impact on online services. Finally, only secure applications and websites are visited so that
users of our dataset do not run into malware or other security issues. We also recognize that our
method could be used to improve LLMs’ abilities in harmful tasks like cyberattacks.


R EPRODUCIBILITY STATEMENT

We took several steps to facilitate reproduction of our results. The end-to-end pipeline, agent roles,
and OSWorld environment setup are described in Section 3, including implementation details such
as screenshot resolution, action execution, and verification flow. Complete prompt templates for
every component and for the evaluation agent are provided in Appendix B , and the OS-level action
space used by agents is specified in Appendix G. Dataset construction, difficulty formation, statistics,
and our evaluation protocol that support the main experiments are reported in Section 5. We also
document the cost accounting required to replicate our scale estimates in Appendix E. We include
anonymized source code and a minimal example dataset in the supplementary materials, and we will
release both the full codebase and dataset publicly after the double-blind review process.


R EFERENCES
Saaket Agashe, Kyle Wong, Vincent Tu, Jiachen Yang, Ang Li, and Xin Eric Wang. Agent
  s2: A compositional generalist-specialist framework for computer use agents. arXiv preprint
  arXiv:2504.00906, 2025.

Léo Boisvert, Megh Thakkar, Maxime Gasse, Massimo Caccia, Thibault de Chezelles, Quentin
  Cappart, Nicolas Chapados, Alexandre Lacoste, and Alexandre Drouin. Workarena++: Towards
  compositional planning and reasoning-based common knowledge work tasks. Advances in Neural
  Information Processing Systems, 37:5996–6051, 2024.

Rogerio Bonatti, Dan Zhao, Francesco Bonacci, Dillon Dupont, Sara Abdali, Yinheng Li, Yadong
  Lu, Justin Wagle, Kazuhito Koishida, Arthur Bucker, Lawrence Jang, and Zack Hui. Windows
  agent arena: Evaluating multi-modal os agents at scale, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/
  abs/2409.08264.

Xiang Deng, Yu Gu, Boyuan Zheng, Shijie Chen, Samuel Stevens, Boshi Wang, Huan Sun, and
  Yu Su. Mind2web: Towards a generalist agent for the web, 2023. URL https://arxiv.
  org/abs/2306.06070.

Alexandre Drouin, Maxime Gasse, Massimo Caccia, Issam H. Laradji, Manuel Del Verme, Tom
  Marty, Léo Boisvert, Megh Thakkar, Quentin Cappart, David Vazquez, Nicolas Chapados, and
  Alexandre Lacoste. Workarena: How capable are web agents at solving common knowledge work
  tasks?, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.07718.

Hiroki Furuta, Yutaka Matsuo, Aleksandra Faust, and Izzeddin Gur. Exposing limitations
  of language model agents in sequential-task compositions on the web. arXiv preprint
  arXiv:2311.18751, 2023.

Apurva Gandhi and Graham Neubig. Go-browse: Training web agents with structured exploration,
  2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.03533.

Tao Ge, Xin Chan, Xiaoyang Wang, Dian Yu, Haitao Mi, and Dong Yu. Scaling synthetic data cre-
  ation with 1,000,000,000 personas, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.20094.


                                                  11
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2026




Gonzalo Gonzalez-Pumariega, Vincent Tu, Chih-Lun Lee, Jiachen Yang, Ang Li, and Xin Eric
  Wang. The unreasonable effectiveness of scaling agents for computer use. arXiv preprint
  arXiv:2510.02250, 2025.
Jie Huang, Xinyun Chen, Swaroop Mishra, Huaixiu Steven Zheng, Adams Wei Yu, Xinying Song,
   and Denny Zhou. Large language models cannot self-correct reasoning yet, 2024. URL https:
   //arxiv.org/abs/2310.01798.
Carlos E. Jimenez, John Yang, Alexander Wettig, Shunyu Yao, Kexin Pei, Ofir Press, and Karthik
  Narasimhan. Swe-bench: Can language models resolve real-world github issues?, 2024. URL
  https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.06770.
Jing Yu Koh, Robert Lo, Lawrence Jang, Vikram Duvvur, Ming Chong Lim, Po-Yu Huang, Graham
   Neubig, Shuyan Zhou, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, and Daniel Fried. Visualwebarena: Evaluating
   multimodal agents on realistic visual web tasks, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/
   2401.13649.
Xiang Lisa Li, Farzaan Kaiyom, Evan Zheran Liu, Yifan Mai, Percy Liang, and Tatsunori
  Hashimoto. Autobencher: Towards declarative benchmark construction, 2025. URL https:
  //arxiv.org/abs/2407.08351.
Haohan Lin, Zhiqing Sun, Sean Welleck, and Yiming Yang. Lean-star: Learning to interleave
  thinking and proving, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.10040.
Evan Zheran Liu, Kelvin Guu, Panupong Pasupat, Tianlin Shi, and Percy Liang. Reinforcement
  learning on web interfaces using workflow-guided exploration, 2018. URL https://arxiv.
  org/abs/1802.08802.
Ruibo Liu, Jerry Wei, Fangyu Liu, Chenglei Si, Yanzhe Zhang, Jinmeng Rao, Steven Zheng, Daiyi
  Peng, Diyi Yang, Denny Zhou, and Andrew M. Dai. Best practices and lessons learned on syn-
  thetic data, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.07503.
Xing Han Lù, Amirhossein Kazemnejad, Nicholas Meade, Arkil Patel, Dongchan Shin, Alejan-
  dra Zambrano, Karolina Stańczak, Peter Shaw, Christopher J. Pal, and Siva Reddy. Agentre-
  wardbench: Evaluating automatic evaluations of web agent trajectories, 2025. URL https:
  //arxiv.org/abs/2504.08942.
Dirk Merkel. Docker: lightweight linux containers for consistent development and deployment.
  Linux J., 2014(239), March 2014. ISSN 1075-3583.
Shikhar Murty, Hao Zhu, Dzmitry Bahdanau, and Christopher D. Manning. Nnetnav: Unsupervised
  learning of browser agents through environment interaction in the wild, 2025. URL https:
  //arxiv.org/abs/2410.02907.
OpenAI. Computer-using agent: Introducing a universal interface for ai to interact with
  the digital world. OpenAI Blog, 2025a.     URL https://openai.com/index/
  computer-using-agent.
OpenAI. Introducing gpt-4.1 in the api. https://openai.com/index/gpt-4-1/, 2025b.
  Accessed: 2025-05-10.
Tianyue Ou, Frank F. Xu, Aman Madaan, Jiarui Liu, Robert Lo, Abishek Sridhar, Sudipta Sengupta,
  Dan Roth, Graham Neubig, and Shuyan Zhou. Synatra: Turning indirect knowledge into direct
  demonstrations for digital agents at scale, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.
  15637.
Vardaan Pahuja, Yadong Lu, Corby Rosset, Boyu Gou, Arindam Mitra, Spencer Whitehead, Yu Su,
  and Ahmed Awadallah. Explorer: Scaling exploration-driven web trajectory synthesis for multi-
  modal web agents, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.11357.
Richard Shin, Neel Kant, Kavi Gupta, Christopher Bender, Brandon Trabucco, Rishabh Singh, and
  Dawn Song. Synthetic datasets for neural program synthesis, 2019. URL https://arxiv.
  org/abs/1912.12345.


                                               12
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2026




Ilia Shumailov, Zakhar Shumaylov, Yiren Zhao, Nicolas Papernot, Ross Anderson, and Yarin Gal.
   Ai models collapse when trained on recursively generated data. Nature, 2024.
Hongjin Su, Ruoxi Sun, Jinsung Yoon, Pengcheng Yin, Tao Yu, and Sercan Ö. Arık. Learn-by-
  interact: A data-centric framework for self-adaptive agents in realistic environments, 2025. URL
  https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.10893.
Qiushi Sun, Kanzhi Cheng, Zichen Ding, Chuanyang Jin, Yian Wang, Fangzhi Xu, Zhenyu Wu,
  Chengyou Jia, Liheng Chen, Zhoumianze Liu, Ben Kao, Guohao Li, Junxian He, Yu Qiao, and
  Zhiyong Wu. Os-genesis: Automating gui agent trajectory construction via reverse task synthesis,
  2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19723.
Al Sweigart. Pyautogui: Cross-platform gui automation for human beings.               https://
  pyautogui.readthedocs.io/, 2025. Accessed: 2025-05-06.
Brandon Trabucco, Gunnar Sigurdsson, Robinson Piramuthu, and Ruslan Salakhutdinov. Towards
  internet-scale training for agents, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.06776.
Tianbao Xie, Danyang Zhang, Jixuan Chen, Xiaochuan Li, Siheng Zhao, Ruisheng Cao, Toh Jing
  Hua, Zhoujun Cheng, Dongchan Shin, Fangyu Lei, Yitao Liu, Yiheng Xu, Shuyan Zhou, Sil-
  vio Savarese, Caiming Xiong, Victor Zhong, and Tao Yu. Osworld: Benchmarking multimodal
  agents for open-ended tasks in real computer environments, 2024. URL https://arxiv.
  org/abs/2404.07972.
Can Xu, Qingfeng Sun, Kai Zheng, Xiubo Geng, Pu Zhao, Jiazhan Feng, Chongyang Tao, Qing-
  wei Lin, and Daxin Jiang. Wizardlm: Empowering large pre-trained language models to follow
  complex instructions, 2025a. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.12244.
Frank F. Xu, Yufan Song, Boxuan Li, Yuxuan Tang, Kritanjali Jain, Mengxue Bao, Zora Z. Wang,
  Xuhui Zhou, Zhitong Guo, Murong Cao, Mingyang Yang, Hao Yang Lu, Amaad Martin, Zhe Su,
  Leander Maben, Raj Mehta, Wayne Chi, Lawrence Jang, Yiqing Xie, Shuyan Zhou, and Graham
  Neubig. Theagentcompany: Benchmarking llm agents on consequential real world tasks, 2024.
  URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.14161.
Yiheng Xu, Dunjie Lu, Zhennan Shen, Junli Wang, Zekun Wang, Yuchen Mao, Caiming Xiong, and
  Tao Yu. Agenttrek: Agent trajectory synthesis via guiding replay with web tutorials, 2025b. URL
  https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09605.
Tianci Xue, Weijian Qi, Tianneng Shi, Chan Hee Song, Boyu Gou, Dawn Song, Huan Sun, and
  Yu Su. An illusion of progress? assessing the current state of web agents, 2025. URL https:
  //arxiv.org/abs/2504.01382.
John Yang, Carlos E. Jimenez, Alexander Wettig, Kilian Lieret, Shunyu Yao, Karthik Narasimhan,
  and Ofir Press. Swe-agent: Agent-computer interfaces enable automated software engineering,
  2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.15793.
Shunyu Yao, Howard Chen, John Yang, and Karthik Narasimhan. Webshop: Towards scalable real-
  world web interaction with grounded language agents, 2023a. URL https://arxiv.org/
  abs/2207.01206.
Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik Narasimhan, and Yuan Cao.
  React: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models, 2023b. URL https://arxiv.
  org/abs/2210.03629.
Shunyu Yao, Noah Shinn, Pedram Razavi, and Karthik Narasimhan. τ -bench: A benchmark for
  tool-agent-user interaction in real-world domains, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/
  2406.12045.
Weizhe Yuan, Jane Yu, Song Jiang, Karthik Padthe, Yang Li, Dong Wang, Ilia Kulikov, Kyunghyun
 Cho, Yuandong Tian, Jason E Weston, and Xian Li. Naturalreasoning: Reasoning in the wild with
 2.8m challenging questions, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13124.
Shuyan Zhou, Frank F. Xu, Hao Zhu, Xuhui Zhou, Robert Lo, Abishek Sridhar, Xianyi Cheng,
  Tianyue Ou, Yonatan Bisk, Daniel Fried, Uri Alon, and Graham Neubig. Webarena: A realistic
  web environment for building autonomous agents, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/
  2307.13854.


                                               13
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2026




A     LLM S U SAGE S TATEMENT
We used LLMs as general-purpose editorial assistants for this manuscript (grammar fixes, word-
ing suggestions, and minor style edits). LLMs did not contribute to research ideation, model or
algorithm design, implementation, data generation or processing, experimental setup, analysis, or
results. All technical content was authored by the authors, who reviewed and approved any edits.

B     P ROMPT D ETAILS
The prompts for the task proposal, execution, verification, revision, follow-up proposal, and sum-
marization agents are provided in Tables B.1–B.9.

                            Table B.1: Prompt for Task Proposal Agent.

    System Role    What does this screen show? You are a real user on this computer. Please provide a
                   single task that the user might perform on this computer and the corresponding first
                   action towards completing that task. You can use any software in the computer and the
                   web. Be creative and come up with diverse tasks. The task should be simple enough
                   that can be finished in a few atomic actions. The task should be clear and very specific.

                   Task proposal rules:
                   1. The task should be specific and clear.
                   2. The task should be achievable within 5 atomic actions like clike, scroll, type, press,
                   etc.
                   3. The task should be relevant to the content of the webpage.
                   4. You should only propose tasks that do not require login to execute the task.
                   5. Provide concrete information or constraints to the task, and use mock-up informa-
                   tion. (identifier, number, personal information, name, attributes, etc.) to make the task
                   more specific and realistic.
                   7. The task description should provide all the necessary information to complete the
                   task.

                   Output with JSON block:
                   {
                   "thoughts":"<Detailed Thoughts and Reasons. Think about if the rules are met, e.g.
                   why the task is related to the user character, why the task is simple enough to be
                   finished in a few actions, is the task clear and specific, etc.>",
                   "task":"<TASK>",
                   "action":"<ACTION>"
                   }

    User Role      You are {PERSONA}, what task would you perform on the computer?
                   {SCREENSHOT}




                                                    14
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2026




                     Table B.2: Prompt for Task Execution Agent (Planner).

  System Role     You are a computer agent which perform desktop computer tasks as instructed. You
                  have good knowledge of computer and good internet connection and assume your will
                  controll the mouse and keyboard. For each step, you will be asked to finish a task, and
                  you will get a screenshot of the current computer screen. You also know the actions
                  that are already done towards the target. You need to provide the next action based
                  on the screenshot. If you have tried similar actions several times but haven’t success,
                  analyze the reason carefully and propose a different action. Try to think if you were
                  wrong or you missed any steps. If you think the task is finished, return "DONE" in the
                  action field.

                  Rules:
                  1. First analyze the screeenshot carefully, pay attention to details in the screenshot.
                  2. Then analyze the previous thoughts and actions to make sure you are on the right
                  track.
                  3. Note: the previous actions may not be executed successfully, so you need to analyze
                  the screenshot carefully.
                  4. If you find you have tried similar actions several times but haven’t success, analyze
                  the reason carefully. Try to think if you were wrong or you missed any steps. Carefully
                  analyze the screenshot to find the reason of the failure and propose a different action.
                  5. If you think the task is finished, return "DONE" in the action field.

                  Output with JSON block:
                  {
                  "thoughts":"<Detailed Thoughts and Reasons>",
                  "action":"<ACTION>"
                  }

  User Role       Given the task: {TASK}. You have gathered some information {INFO}. Here is your
                  previous thinking process to complete the task {THOUGHTS_HISTORY}. Here are
                  your previous actions tried {ACTION_HISTORY}. Here is the current screenshot.
                  What would be the next action?
                  {SCREENSHOT}




                Table B.3: Prompt for Task Execution Agent (Visual Grounding).

  System Role     You are a computer agent which perform desktop computer tasks as instructed. You
                  have good knowledge of computer and good internet connection, and assume you
                  control the mouse and keyboard. For each step, you will be asked to finish a task, and
                  you will get a screenshot of the current computer screen. You also know the actions
                  that are already done towards the target. You need to provide the next action based on
                  the screenshot.

                  Rules:
                  1. You have all the permissions to proceed, and you don’t need to ask for permission.
                  The safety checks are acknowledged, and you can always proceed.
                  2. If you have clicked the same item several times, you don’t need to click it again.
                  3. Do not click on ads.
                  4. If the computer is locked, type "password".

  User Role       Given the task: {TASK}, you have done the following actions: {AC-
                  TION_HISTORY}. You need to do the next step: {STEP}. What would be the
                  action?
                  {SCREENSHOT}




                                                   15
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2026




                     Table B.4: Prompt for Follow-up Task Proposal Agent.

  System Role     What does this screen show? You are a real user on this computer. Given the tasks the
                  user has done, please provide a single follow-up task that the user might perform on
                  this computer and the corresponding first action towards completing that task. You can
                  use any software on the computer and the web. Be creative and come up with diverse
                  tasks. The task should be simple enough that can be finished in a few atomic actions.

                  Task proposal rules:
                  1. The task should depend on the previous tasks.
                  2. The task should be achievable within 5 atomic actions like click, scroll, type, press,
                  etc.
                  4. The task should be relevant to the content of the previous tasks.
                  5. You should only propose tasks that do not require a login to execute the task.
                  6. Provide concrete information or constraints to the task, and use mock-up informa-
                  tion (identifier, number, personal information, name, attributes, etc.) to make the task
                  more specific and realistic.
                  7. The task description should provide all the necessary information to complete the
                  task.
                  8. Do not propose tasks including sending emails or sharing on social media.

                  Output with JSON block:
                  {
                  "thoughts":"<Detailed Thoughts and Reasons. Think about if the rules are met, e.g.
                  why the task is related to the user character and previous tasks, why the task is simple
                  enough to be finished in a few actions, is the task clear and specific, etc.>",
                  "task":"<TASK>",
                  "action":"<ACTION>"
                  }

  User Role       You are {PERSONA}. Given the task history {TASK_HISTORY}, what would be a
                  follow-up task? Note that these tasks {FAILED_TASKS} are too hard for the agent,
                  propose a simpler one.
                  {SCREENSHOT}




        Table B.5: Prompt for Task Verification Agent (Key Requirement Identification).

  System Role     You are an expert tasked with analyzing a given task to identify the key points
                  explicitly stated in the task description. Carefully analyze the task description and
                  extract the critical elements explicitly mentioned in the task for achieving its goal.

                  Rules
                  1. Read the task description carefully.
                  2. Identify and extract key points directly stated in the task description.
                  3. A key point is a critical element, condition, or step explicitly mentioned in the task
                  description.
                  4. Do not infer or add any unstated elements.

                  Output with JSON block:
                  {
                  "thoughts":"<Your detailed thinking and reasoning process>",
                  "key_points":"<List of the key points for completing this task>"
                  }

  User Role       Given the task {TASK}, what are the key points?




                                                   16
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2026




         Table B.6: Prompt for Task Verification Agent (Key Screenshot Identification).

  System Role     You are an expert evaluator tasked with determining whether a screenshot contains
                  information about the necessary steps to complete a task. Analyze the provided image
                  and decide if it shows essential steps or evidence required for completing the task. Use
                  your reasoning to explain your decision.

                  Rules
                  1. Provide a detailed description of the screenshot, including its contents, visible ele-
                  ments, text (if any), and any notable features.
                  2. Carefully examine the screenshot and evaluate whether it contains necessary steps
                  or evidence crucial to task completion.
                  3. Identify key points that could be relevant to task completion, such as actions,
                  progress indicators, tool usage, applied filters, or step-by-step instructions.
                  4. Does the screenshot show actions, progress indicators, or critical information di-
                  rectly related to completing the task
                  5. Is this information indispensable for understanding or ensuring task success?
                  6. If the screenshot contains partial but relevant information, consider its usefulness
                  rather than dismissing it outright.
                  Output with JSON block:
                  {
                  "thoughts":"<Your detailed thinking and reasoning process>",
                  "necessary":"<True or False>"
                  }

  User Role       Given the task {TASK}, the key points to finish the task {KEY_POINTS}, and the
                  screenshot of an action, is this screenshot a necessary step to complete the task?
                  {SCREENSHOT}



                Table B.7: Prompt for Task Verification Agent (Final Judgement).

  System Role     You are an expert in evaluating the performance of a computer-use agent. The agent
                  is designed to help a human user complete a computer-use task. Given the user’s
                  task, the agent’s action history, key points for task completion, and some important
                  screenshots in the agent’s trajectory, your goal is to determine whether the agent has
                  completed the task and achieved all requirements.

                  Rules
                  1. The filtered results must be displayed correctly. If filters were not properly applied
                  (i.e., missing selection, missing confirmation, or no visible effect in results), it should
                  be considered a failure.
                  2. You must carefully check whether these screenshots and action history meet these
                  key points. Ensure that specific requirements are correctly applied. 3. Some tasks
                  require a submission action or a display of results to be considered successful. Repeat
                  actions or actions that do not lead to a visible result should be considered a failure.
                  4. If the agent loops through a sequence of actions that do not make progress toward
                  the goal (including failing to click "Save" or "Submit," etc.), it should be considered a
                  failure.

                  Output with JSON block:
                  {
                  "thoughts":"<Your detailed thinking and reasoning process>",
                  "success":"<True or False>",
                  "success rate":"<Probability of success in unit of percentage, like 20, 50, 100, numbers
                  only>" }

  User Role       Given the task {TASK}, the key points to finish the task {KEY_POINTS}, and the
                  screenshots history, is the agent successful?
                  {LIST OF SCREENSHOTS}




                                                    17
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2026




                           Table B.8: Prompt for Task Revision Agent.

  System Role     Given a list of screenshots of actions performed on the computer, you are asked
                  to come up with a single task description that will be accomplished by performing
                  these actions in the given sequence. First analyze these actions and generate the task
                  description. Only summarize the completed actions, and ignore the actions that are not
                  completed. If there is no completed action or no meaningful task, return "NONE" in
                  the task field.

                  Rules:
                  1. The task should be specific and clear.
                  2. The task description should provide all the necessary information to complete the
                  task.
                  3. The task should be feasible to complete by a real user and should not require any
                  additional information that is not specified in this input.

                  Output with JSON block:
                  {
                  "thoughts":"<Detailed Thoughts and Reasons>",
                  "task":"<TASK>"
                  }

  User Role       Given the set of screenshots of actions, what would be a single task description that
                  will be accomplished by performing these actions in the given sequence?"
                  {LIST OF SCREENSHOTS}




                         Table B.9: Prompt for Task Summarize Agent.

  System Role     Given a list of subtasks performed on the computer, you are asked to come up with a
                  single task description that will be accomplished by performing these subtasks in the
                  given sequence. First analyze these subtasks and generate the task description.

                  Rules:
                  1. The task should be specific and clear.
                  2. The task description should provide all the necessary information to complete the
                  task.
                  3. The task should be feasible to complete by a real user and should not require any
                  additional information that is not specified in this input.
                  4. The task should include all the numbers and information used in the subtasks.

                  Output with JSON block:
                  {
                  "thoughts":"<Detailed Thoughts and Reasons>",
                  "task":"<TASK>"
                  }

  User Role       Given the subtasks history {TASK_HISTORY} and the final screenshot, what would
                  be a single task description that will be accomplished by performing these subtasks in
                  the given sequence?
                  {SCREENSHOT}




                                                  18
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2026




                            Table B.10: Prompt for Evaluation Agent.

  System Role     You are an agent which follow my instructions and performs desktop computer tasks
                  as instructed. You have good knowledge of computers and a good internet connection,
                  and assume your code will run on a computer for controlling the mouse and keyboard.
                  For each step, you will get an observation of the desktop through a screenshot. And
                  you will predict the action of the computer based on the image and text information.

                  You are required to use ‘pyautogui‘ to perform the action grounded to the observation.
                  You can use the following functions:

                  pyautogui.click(x, y, button);
                  pyautogui.doubleClick(x, y);
                  pyautogui.moveTo(x, y);
                  pyautogui.write(string);
                  pyautogui.dragTo(x, y);
                  pyautogui.scroll(amount);
                  pyautogui.press(key);
                  pyautogui.hotkey(key1, key2, ...);
                  time.sleep(5)

                  Note that ’pyautogui’ and ’time’ packages have already been imported. Return one
                  line or multiple lines of python code to perform the action each time, be time efficient.
                  When predicting multiple lines of code, make some small sleep like time.sleep(1). You
                  need to to specify the coordinates of by yourself based on your observation of current
                  observation, and you should be careful to ensure that the coordinates are correct.

                  If you think the task is finished, return "DONE" in the code field.

                  Output must be a valid JSON block with the following format:
                  {
                  "thoughts":"<Detailed Thoughts and Reasons>",
                  "code":"<Python code>"
                  }

  User Role       Given the task: {TASK}. Here are your previous thoughts {THOUGHTS_HISTORY}.
                  And here is the current screenshot. What would be the next action?
                  {SCREENSHOT}




                                                   19
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2026




C                      A DDITIONAL DATASET S TATISTICS AND E VALUATION

                                                                                                     6                                                                                     40
                      100
Average Token Count
                                                                                                     5




                                                                                                                                                                          Percentage (%)
                                                                                    Percentage (%)
                       75                                                                            4                                                                                     30
                       50                                                                            3                                                                                     20
                                                                                                     2
                       25                                                                                                                                                                  10
                                                                                                     1
                        0 1     2 3 4 5 6                                                            0 0 10 20 30 40 50 60                                                                  0 1   2 3 4 5 6 7
                              Task Difficulty Level                                                        Number of Steps                                                                        Number of Software

                                  (a)                                                                                     (b)                                                                         (c)

Figure C.1: AgentSynth dataset statistics. (a) Average token count by task difficulty. (b) Distri-
bution of the number of steps at task difficulty level 6. (c) Distribution of the number of software
applications for each task at difficulty level 6.

Table C.1 summarizes several task properties as a function of difficulty level. Beyond the primary
“horizon” measure (average number of steps), we compute the average number of distinct applica-
tions involved, the number of application switches, and a memory-span metric defined as the maxi-
mum step distance between reading a piece of information and later using it in the same trajectory.
We also estimate the fraction of tasks that require fine-grained visual discrimination (“fine-grained”).
As difficulty increases from level 1 to 6, horizon, number of apps, context switches, and memory
span all increase, indicating that higher levels not only involve longer trajectories but also more
cross-application coordination and longer-range dependencies. The fraction of fine-grained percep-
tion tasks remains relatively stable, suggesting that visual discrimination is present across all levels
but is not the primary knob we use to control difficulty.

                                             Table C.1: Task properties across difficulty levels.

                Level         Avg. horizon                  Avg. # apps                                 Avg. # switches                            Avg. memory span                                 Fine-grained (%)
                       1           5                                             1.2                                  0.5                                               2                                   40
                       2           12                                            1.7                                  1.5                                                5                                  42
                       3           23                                            2.3                                  2.4                                                9                                  38
                       4           34                                            2.8                                  3.4                                               12                                  41
                       5           41                                            3.1                                  3.9                                               16                                  45
                       6           45                                            3.3                                  4.3                                               18                                  43



                                                                                                           * 3 7        6                        * 3 7        6   
                                                                                                              * 3 7      6                            R   P L Q L 
                                                                                                              R   P L Q L    6                        * 3 7    

                                                                           
                                              6 X F F H V V  5 D W H




                                                                           


                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                 7 D V N  ' L I I L F X O W \  / H Y H O

                            Figure C.2: Model performance for bare LLMs and with Agent S2.5 scaffolding.



                                                                                                                           20
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2026




D    E XAMPLE TASKS

To illustrate the quality and realism of tasks generated by the AgentSynth pipeline, we present a
representative example.
First, a persona is sampled from the persona hub (Ge et al., 2024):

    Persona: a senior student at Kentucky Wesleyan College.

Then, the task proposer generated an initial task tailored to this persona:

    Initial task: Search for the ’Kentucky Wesleyan College 2024 academic calendar’ in Google Chrome.

Next, this initial task was successfully executed, and five follow-up tasks were iteratively generated
and completed:

    • Follow-up Task 1 Find the Kentucky Wesleyan College 2024 commencement (graduation) date on
      the academic calendar currently open in Chrome
    • Follow-up Task 2 Open the Calendar application after searching for graduation-related dates on an
      academic calendar website.
    • Follow-up Task 3 Scroll backwards month-by-month in the calendar application from March 2025
      to June 2024 using the month view.
    • Follow-up Task 4 Create a new calendar event on Kentucky Wesleyan College’s 2024 commence-
      ment titled ’Graduation Day’ and add a note: ’Remember to bring gown and arrive 1 hour early.
    • Follow-up Task 5 Add a notification/reminder to the ’Graduation Day’ event on May 3, 2024 in the
      Calendar app to alert you 1 day before.

Each of these subtasks is simple and logically follows from the previous one. The task summarizer
composes them into coherent, high-level tasks. We define task difficulty level n as the summary
of the first n subtasks, resulting in increasingly complex and realistic scenarios. These summarized
tasks are then used for evaluation and benchmarking. The list below shows the final task descriptions
at six difficulty levels, with italicized text indicating the incremental complexity introduced at each
level:

    • Task Difficulty Level 1 (same as the initial task): Search for the ’Kentucky Wesleyan College 2024
      academic calendar’ in Google Chrome.
    • Task Difficulty Level 2: Find and report the date and time of the Kentucky Wesleyan College 2024
      commencement ceremony by searching for the 2024 academic calendar online, locating the official
      calendar, and identifying the commencement event listed there.
    • Task Difficulty Level 3: Search for the ’Kentucky Wesleyan College 2024 academic calendar’ in
      Google Chrome, find the 2024 commencement date, and then open the Calendar application to view
      or record the commencement date.
    • Task Difficulty Level 4: Find the Kentucky Wesleyan College 2024 commencement date using
      Google Chrome, then open the Calendar application and scroll back in month view from March 2025
      to June 2024 in preparation for viewing or adding the graduation date to the calendar.
    • Task Difficulty Level 5: Find the Kentucky Wesleyan College 2024 commencement date by search-
      ing online (using the academic calendar), and create a new event titled ’Graduation Day’ in your
      digital Calendar application, adding a note that says ’Remember to bring gown and arrive 1 hour
      early’.
    • Task Difficulty Level 6: Find the Kentucky Wesleyan College 2024 commencement date by search-
      ing the 2024 academic calendar online, then create a calendar event titled ’Graduation Day’ in the
      Calendar application with a note saying ’Remember to bring gown and arrive 1 hour early,’ and set
      a reminder to alert you one day before the event.

As the task level increases, both task length and complexity grow accordingly. Each additional
subtask introduces new actions, tools, or planning steps. Figure C.1a shows the average token


                                                    21
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2026




count across task levels, confirming that longer task compositions correspond to more elaborate task
descriptions and execution requirements.
We show a few more example tasks generated by our AgentSynth pipeline.

                                               Example 1

   Persona: A climate-conscious teenager who confronts their parent about the negative envi-
   ronmental impact of their investments
   Subtasks:
            • Search for a recent article about the environmental impact of investing in fossil fuel
              companies and open it to prepare for discussion with your parent.
            • Create and edit a new text file using Visual Studio Code.
            • Add a section to your text file in Visual Studio Code listing three alternative sustain-
              able investment options (e.g., renewable energy funds, green bonds, or ESG index
              funds) and a brief reason why each is better for the environment.
            • Add a relevant quote or statistic from the recent article about fossil fuel investments’
              environmental impact to your text file in Visual Studio Code, citing the source.
            • Enter energy source categories (’Fossil Fuels’ and ’Renewables’) and their respec-
              tive values (200 and 20) into a LibreOffice Calc spreadsheet, then select this data to
              initiate the creation of a pivot table.
            • Select a range of data in LibreOffice Calc and initiate the creation of a pivot table
              using the selected data.
   Tasks:
            • Search for a recent article about the environmental impact of investing in fossil fuel
              companies and open it to prepare for discussion with your parent.
            • Search for a recent article about the environmental impact of investing in fossil fuel
              companies, open it to gather information, and then create a new text file in Visual
              Studio Code where you write or summarize the key points from the article to prepare
              for a discussion with your parent.
            • Research and summarize a recent article about the environmental impact of invest-
              ing in fossil fuel companies, then use Visual Studio Code to create a new text file.
              In this file, document the summary and add a section listing three alternative sus-
              tainable investment options (e.g., renewable energy funds, green bonds, ESG index
              funds), including a brief explanation for each on why it is better for the environment,
              to prepare for a discussion with your parent.
            • Research a recent article about the environmental impact of investing in fossil fuel
              companies, then create a new text file in Visual Studio Code. In the file, summa-
              rize the article by including a relevant quote or statistic (with proper citation), and
              list three alternative sustainable investment options, renewable energy funds, green
              bonds, and ESG index funds, each with a brief explanation of their environmental
              benefits, to prepare for a discussion with your parent.
            • Prepare for a discussion about the environmental impact of investing in fossil fuel
              companies by (1) finding and reviewing a recent article on the topic, (2) creating a
              text file in Visual Studio Code summarizing three alternative sustainable investment
              options (such as renewable energy funds, green bonds, or ESG index funds) and
              explaining why each is better for the environment, (3) adding a relevant quote or
              statistic from the article to the text file with a citation, and (4) entering the energy
              source categories ’Fossil Fuels’ (value 200) and ’Renewables’ (value 20) into a
              LibreOffice Calc spreadsheet, then selecting this data to initiate the creation of a
              pivot table for comparison.
            • Research a recent article about the environmental impact of investing in fossil fuel
              companies and open it. Use the information to prepare a text file in Visual Studio


                                                    22
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2026




              Code that includes: (1) three alternative sustainable investment options (such as
              renewable energy funds, green bonds, or ESG index funds) and a brief reason each
              is better for the environment, and (2) a relevant quote or statistic from the article
              about fossil fuel investments. Then, in LibreOffice Calc, enter the values for two
              energy source categories: ’Fossil Fuels’ (200) and ’Renewables’ (20), select this
              data, and initiate the creation of a pivot table to compare them for a discussion with
              your parent
            • Research a recent article about the environmental impact of investing in fossil fuel
              companies and open it. Use the information to prepare a text file in Visual Studio
              Code that includes: (1) three alternative sustainable investment options (such as
              renewable energy funds, green bonds, or ESG index funds) and a brief reason each
              is better for the environment, and (2) a relevant quote or statistic from the article
              about fossil fuel investments. Then, in LibreOffice Calc, enter the values for two
              energy source categories: ’Fossil Fuels’ (200) and ’Renewables’ (20), select this
              data, and initiate the creation of a pivot table to compare them for a discussion with
              your parent

                                              Example 2

   Persona: A mentor who guides the student in exploring more advanced concepts and exper-
   iments
   Subtasks:
         • Create a new Python file named ’experiment1.py’ using VS Code to start an ad-
           vanced programming experiment.
         • Install the recommended ’Python’ extension for Visual Studio Code to enable ad-
           vanced Python features for your experiment.
         • Write a simple print statement (e.g., print(’Advanced experiment ready!’)) in ’ex-
           periment1.py’ and run the file in VS Code to confirm successful Python setup.
         • Create and run a Python script (’experiment1.py’) in Visual Studio Code that first
           prints ’Advanced experiment ready!’, then edit the script to define and call a func-
           tion ’greet()’ that prints ’Welcome to advanced Python!’, and run the updated script
           to confirm the new output.
         • Create and test a Python function named personal_greet that takes a name as an
           argument and returns ’Hello, name! Welcome to advanced Python!’, then call it
           with the name ’Alice’ and print the result.
         • Edit a Python script to prompt the user for their name and print a personalized
           greeting using a function called personal_greet.
   Tasks:
            • Create a new Python file named ’experiment1.py’ using VS Code to start an ad-
              vanced programming experiment.
            • Set up an advanced Python programming environment in Visual Studio Code by
              creating a new Python file named ’experiment1.py’ and installing the recommended
              ’Python’ extension for VS Code to enable advanced Python features.
            • Set up an advanced Python programming environment in Visual Studio Code by
              creating a new file named ’experiment1.py’, installing the recommended ’Python’
              extension for VS Code, writing the code print(’Advanced experiment ready!’) in
              ’experiment1.py’, and running the file in VS Code to confirm the Python environ-
              ment is correctly configured.
            • Set up Visual Studio Code for advanced Python development on your system by
              creating a new Python file named ’experiment1.py’, installing the recommended
              ’Python’ extension for VS Code, and confirming your environment by first adding
              a print statement (print(’Advanced experiment ready!’)) and running the file. Then,


                                                   23
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2026




              modify ’experiment1.py’ to define and call a function named ’greet()’ that prints
              ’Welcome to advanced Python!’, and run the script again to verify it outputs the
              new message as expected.
            • Set up a Python development environment in Visual Studio Code by creating a new
              file named ’experiment1.py’, installing the recommended Python extension, and
              verifying the Python setup by writing and running a script that: first, prints ’Ad-
              vanced experiment ready!’; next, defines and calls a function ’greet()’ that prints
              ’Welcome to advanced Python!’; and finally, defines and tests a function ’per-
              sonal_greet’ that takes a name argument and returns a personalized greeting ’Hello,
              name! Welcome to advanced Python!’, calling it with ’Alice’ and printing the result.
            • Set up Visual Studio Code for advanced Python programming by installing the rec-
              ommended ’Python’ extension. Create a new Python file named ’experiment1.py’.
              In this file, first write and run a simple print statement (such as print(’Advanced
              experiment ready!’)) to confirm Python is working. Next, enhance the script by
              defining a function ’greet()’ that prints ’Welcome to advanced Python!’ and run
              it. Then, define a function ’personal_greet’ that takes a name argument and returns
              a personalized message: ’Hello, name! Welcome to advanced Python!’. Call this
              function with the argument ’Alice’ and print the output to test it. Finally, edit the
              script so that it prompts the user to enter their name and prints a personalized greet-
              ing using the ’personal_greet’ function. Run the script after each change to verify
              correct output.

                                              Example 3

   Persona: A whistleblower who anonymously provides crucial information about the art
   dealer’s illegal operations
   Subtasks:
         • Open the web browser and navigate to the SecureDrop homepage to review the
           instructions for submitting anonymous tips about the art dealer’s illegal operations.
         • Open a text editor and draft an anonymous tip detailing the art dealer’s illegal activ-
           ities, including evidence (e.g., ’Art Dealer John Smith is selling forged artworks un-
           der the alias ArtHouseX. Key transaction dated 2023-09-12 with buyer code 9743.
           See attached invoice scan.’). Save the file as ’Anonymous_Tip_ArtDealer.txt’ in the
           Documents folder.
         • Create an invoice slide in LibreOffice Impress with the following details: Title ’In-
           voice’, Date: 2023-09-12, Buyer Code: 9743, Seller: John Smith (Alias: ArtHou-
           seX), Description: Forged artwork, Total: $12,000.
         • Export the invoice slide as a PDF file named ’Invoice_ArtDealer_20230912.pdf’ in
           the Documents folder for submission as evidence.
         • Create and save an anonymous tip text file (’Anonymous_Tip_ArtDealer.txt’) sum-
           marizing and reporting the details of a forged artwork transaction documented on
           an invoice, including the seller’s alias, transaction date, buyer code, and a reference
           to the attached invoice scan.
         • Write an anonymous tip about an art dealer selling forged artworks in a text file
           named ’Anonymous_Tip_ArtDealer.txt’.
   Tasks:
            • Open the web browser and navigate to the SecureDrop homepage to review the
              instructions for submitting anonymous tips about the art dealer’s illegal operations.
            • Review the SecureDrop homepage for instructions on anonymously submit-
              ting tips, then draft and save an anonymous tip in a text file named ’Anony-
              mous_Tip_ArtDealer.txt’ in the Documents folder. The tip should state: ’Art Dealer
              John Smith is selling forged artworks under the alias ArtHouseX. Key transaction
              dated 2023-09-12 with buyer code 9743. See attached invoice scan.


                                                   24
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2026




           • Prepare and save an anonymous tip about art dealer John Smith’s illegal activities
             for submission via SecureDrop by (1) reviewing SecureDrop instructions online, (2)
             drafting and saving a detailed anonymous tip as ’Anonymous_Tip_ArtDealer.txt’ in
             the Documents folder, including evidence that John Smith (alias: ArtHouseX) sold
             forged artwork on 2023-09-12 to buyer code 9743 for $12,000, and referencing
             an attached invoice, and (3) creating and saving an invoice slide in LibreOffice
             Impress with the following details: Title ’Invoice’, Date: 2023-09-12, Buyer Code:
             9743, Seller: John Smith (Alias: ArtHouseX), Description: Forged artwork, Total:
             $12,000.
           • Prepare an anonymous tip about illegal forged artwork sales by art dealer John
             Smith (alias: ArtHouseX), including supporting evidence. Draft an anonymous tip
             in a text editor stating that ’Art Dealer John Smith is selling forged artworks under
             the alias ArtHouseX. Key transaction dated 2023-09-12 with buyer code 9743. See
             attached invoice scan.’ Save this draft as ’Anonymous_Tip_ArtDealer.txt’ in your
             Documents folder. In LibreOffice Impress, create an invoice slide with the title
             ’Invoice’, date ’2023-09-12’, buyer code ’9743’, seller ’John Smith (Alias: Art-
             HouseX)’, description ’Forged artwork’, and total ’$12,000’. Export this slide as
             ’Invoice_ArtDealer_20230912.pdf’ to the Documents folder. These two files will
             be prepared for anonymous submission via SecureDrop after reviewing the Secure-
             Drop submission instructions.
           • Prepare and save a complete anonymous report for submission to SecureDrop about
             art dealer John Smith’s illegal sale of forged artworks (alias: ArtHouseX), including
             drafting an anonymous tip file (’Anonymous_Tip_ArtDealer.txt’) outlining the ac-
             tivities and transaction (dated 2023-09-12, buyer code 9743, total $12,000), and cre-
             ating an invoice as corroborating evidence (slide in LibreOffice Impress with these
             details) exported as ’Invoice_ArtDealer_20230912.pdf’, both saved in the Docu-
             ments folder, in accordance with the reviewed SecureDrop submission instructions.
           • Prepare and save two files in the Documents folder to submit an anonymous tip
             about art dealer John Smith (alias ArtHouseX) selling forged artworks: (1) a text file
             named ’Anonymous_Tip_ArtDealer.txt’ that details the illegal transaction (dated
             2023-09-12, buyer code 9743, evidence reference to attached invoice scan), and
             (2) a PDF export of an invoice slide (created in LibreOffice Impress) titled ’In-
             voice’, with the same transaction details (seller: John Smith (ArtHouseX), descrip-
             tion: forged artwork, total: $12,000), saved as ’Invoice_ArtDealer_20230912.pdf’,
             ready for anonymous submission via SecureDrop.



E    C OST A NALYSIS

In this section, we analyze the cost of AgentSynth and compare it to the labor costs of several human-
curated agent datasets. Since many of these datasets are created by graduate students, a labor rate of
$25 USD per hour is a reasonable baseline. However, labor rates vary widely across regions and can
be as low as $2 per hour in some low-income countries. To account for this variability, we estimate
costs using a range of $2–$25 per hour.
τ -bench (Yao et al., 2024) includes tasks with up to 30 steps, but the authors did not provide a de-
tailed breakdown of the human labor involved in the data curation process. The dataset construction
comprises three stages: (1) manual design of the database, (2) automatic data generation, and (3)
manual task annotation. Labor costs for the first two stages are not disclosed. For the third stage, the
authors reported manual inspection of over 40 trials per task. Assuming an average of 3 minutes per
trial, this implies approximately 2 hours of labor per task. At the estimated labor rate of $2-$25/hour,
the cost per task is around $4 - $50. This should be considered a lower-bound estimate, as it does
not include the potentially substantial cost of database and API design.
OSWorld (Xie et al., 2024) limits each task to a maximum of 15 steps and provides clear reporting
on human labor. The dataset was created by 9 computer science students over approximately 1,800


                                                  25
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2026




person-hours, resulting in 412 tasks. This averages to about 4.4 hours per task, or $8.8 - $110 per
task, assuming a labor rate of $2-$25/hour.
TheAgentCompany (Xu et al., 2024) reports a total of 3,000 person-hours for the creation of 175
tasks. This equates to roughly 17.1 hours of labor per task, yielding a cost of approximately $34 -
$425 per task, assuming a labor rate of $2-$25/hour.
AgentSynth. We use GPT-4.1 ($2 per million tokens) for most agents in the pipeline, the computer-
use-preview model ($3 per million tokens) for visual grounding, and GPT-4.1-mini ($0.40 per mil-
lion tokens) for the verifier to reduce costs. A full-resolution screenshot (1920 ×1080) typically
consumes around 1k tokens for GPT-4.1 and 2k tokens for the computer-use-preview model. For
verification, we downsample screenshots to 960× 540, which results in approximately 1k tokens
per image for GPT-4.1-mini. Each execution step costs roughly $0.011, and a typical trajectory con-
sists of 50 steps across 6 subtasks. This results in an average total cost of approximately $0.60 per
trajectory. Since we can generate 6 tasks from the 6 subtasks, each task is only $0.1.

F    A PPLYING AGENT S YNTH P IPELINE FOR W EB AGENT




Figure F.1: Comparison of model performance at different task levels for the web agent built in the
InSTA environment. 2-sigma error bars are included.

To highlight the generality of our pipeline, we also apply it to a web agent environment (InSTA
(Trabucco et al., 2025)). This section describes results for our test dataset of 194 tasks in 61 task
sequences from InSTA, which converts webpages into text outlines with interactable elements an-
notated with numerical IDs. The agent can choose from a set list of actions like clicking, filling out
text fields, and going to websites, on any of the interactable elements.3 A Playwright server hosted
on Docker (Merkel, 2014) is then used to access the Internet and send GET and POST requests. At
least 20GB is needed for the InSTA Docker image, and ideally more for storing Playwright calls; on
an E2 Google Cloud Compute VM with 8 vCPUs, generating five task sequences using two workers
takes somewhere from 60-90 minutes.
In InSTA, as shown in Figure F.1, similar drop-offs in task difficulty occur as in Figure C.1a. Sum-
marized tasks are substantially more difficult than the baseline existing tasks in the InSTA dataset
(Trabucco et al., 2025), from 40% and 12% for gpt-4.1 and o4-mini respectively to 12.9% and
6.45%. Furthermore, as shown in Figure F.2, InSTA summarized tasks also grow in description
length as the number of tasks included increases.




    3
      Since websites are less general-purpose than applications, most personas are not relevant to a given website,
so personas are not used for InSTA task generation.


                                                        26
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2026




Figure F.2: Average token count for different task levels in InSTA. The tasks become more complex
as the number of subtasks increases.




                     Table F.1: Prompt for Task Proposer Agent for InSTA.

  System Role     What does this screen show? Imagine you are a real user on this webpage. Given the
                  webpage link, please provide a single task that a user might perform on this website and
                  the corresponding first action towards completing that task. You can use any software
                  in the computer and the web. Be creative and come up with diverse tasks. The task
                  should be simple enough that can be finished in a few steps. You should propose tasks
                  that are clear and specific.
                  Task proposal rules:
                  1. The website should be explicitly mentioned in the task description.
                  2. The task should be specific, clear, and easily evaluated, not open-ended.
                  3. The task should be achievable within 1-3 steps.
                  4. The task should be relevant to the content of the webpage.
                  5. You should only propose tasks that do not require login to execute the task.
                  6. Generally try to avoid tasks that require sending emails, submitting forms, login, or
                  other forms of communication.
                  7. Provide concrete information or constraints to the task, and use mock-up information
                  (identifier, number, personal information, name, attributes, etc.) to make the task more
                  specific and realistic.
                  8. The task description should provide all the necessary information to complete the
                  task.
                  9. Do not propose tasks that are not possible in the Playwright API, such as download-
                  ing reports or opening and interacting with files.
                  Output with JSON block:
                  ```{"task":"<TASK>", "action":"<ACTION>"}```
  User Role       Given the website: {website} and webpage layout {webpage_text}, please propose a
                  task.




                                                   27
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2026




                Table F.2: Prompt for Follow-up Task Proposer Agent for InSTA.

  System Role     What does this screen show? Imagine you are a real user on this webpage. Given the
                  website link, and the tasks the user has done, please provide a single followup task
                  that a user might perform on this website and the corresponding first action towards
                  completing that task. You can use any software in the computer and the web. Be
                  creative and come up with diverse tasks. The task should be simple enough that can be
                  finished in a few steps.
                  Task proposal rules:
                  1. The website should be explicitly mentioned in the task description.
                  2. The task should depend on the previous tasks.
                  3. The task should be specific, clear, and easily evaluated, not open-ended.
                  4. The task should be achievable within 1-3 steps.
                  5. The task should be relevant to the content of the webpage.
                  6. You should only propose tasks that do not require login to execute the task.
                  7. Provide concrete information or constraints to the task, and use mock-up information
                  (identifier, number, personal information, name, attributes, etc.) to make the task more
                  specific and realistic.
                  8. The task description should provide all the necessary information to complete the
                  task.
                  9. The task should be relevant to the overall task listed in the user prompt, if applicable.
                  If the overall task is achievable within a few steps, you can simply propose the overall
                  task as the followup task. If the overall task is already achieved, you can propose an
                  extension of the overall task.
                  10. Do not propose tasks that are not possible in the Playwright API, such as down-
                  loading reports or opening and interacting with files.
                  11. Try to avoid tasks that require sending emails, submitting forms, login, or other
                  forms of communication.
                  12. Avoid tasks that modify the backend state of the website.
                  Output with JSON block: ```{"task":"<TASK>", "action":"<ACTION>"}```
  User Role       Given the website: {website}, webpage layout: {webpage_text} and task history:
                  {task_history}, please propose a followup task. [If given: “Overall task: {over-
                  all_task}."]




                                                    28
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2026




G    OSW ORLD ACTION S PACE

Table G.1: Action space for the computer-use agent. The percentage indicates the relative frequency
of each action type in the full AgentSynth dataset.

         Action Type                 Description                                              Percentage
         click [x, y, button]        Click at position (x, y) with button of left or right.     59.1%
         write [text]                Type text.                                                 12.1%
         press [key]                 Press a single key.                                         8.2%
         scroll [amount]             Scroll up or down for amount.                               5.4%
         move [x, y]                 Move the mouse to position (x, y).                          5.3%
         drag [x1 , y1 , x2 , y2 ]   Drag from (x1 , y1 ) to (x2 , y2 ).                         4.6%
         hotkey [list of keys]       Press several keys at the same time                         3.0%
         double-click [x, y]         Double click at position (x, y).                            1.5%
         wait                        Wait 5 seconds                                              0.8%




                                                         29
